Add a proposal for better conversion from collection expression (#8348)
dotnet/csharplang: proposals/collection-expression-better-conversion.md

cause ambiguities during overload resolution for `[""]`.

## Detailed Design

The following are the better conversion from expression rules. These replace the rules in https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/blob/main/proposals/csharp-12.0/collection-expressions.md#overload-resolution.

These rules are:

> Given an implicit conversion `C₁` that converts from an expression `E` to a type `T₁`, and an implicit conversion `C₂` that converts from an expression `E` to a type `T₂`, `C₁` is a ***better conversion*** than `C₂` if one of the following holds:
> **`E` is a *collection expression*, and `C₁` is a ***better collection conversion from expression***, or**
> * **`E` is not a *collection expression* and one of the following holds:**
>   * `E` exactly matches `T₁` and `E` does not exactly match `T₂`
>   * `E` exactly matches both or neither of `T₁` and `T₂`, and `T₁` is a [*better conversion target*](https://github.com/dotnet/csharpstandard/blob/standard-v6/standard/expressions.md#11646-better-conversion-target) than `T₂`
> * `E` is a method group, ...

We add a new definition for ***better collection conversion from expression***, as follows:

Given:

> - `E` is a collection expression with element expressions `[EL₁, EL₂, ..., ELₙ]`

Reviewer: If `EL` are meant to include spread elements, then we should avoid calling these expressions.
```suggestion
- `E` is a collection expression with elements `[EL₁, EL₂, ..., ELₙ]`
```

- `T₁` and `T₂` are collection types
- `T'₁`:
    - If `T₁` is a generic type, `T₁` with all type parameters unsubstituted
    - If `T₁` is an array type, an unsubstituted array type
    - Otherwise, `T₁`
- `T'₂` is the same as `T'₁`, except for using `T₂` instead of `T₁`
- `E₁` is the element type of `T₁`
- `E₂` is the element type of `T₂`
- `CE₁ᵢ` are the series of conversions from `ELᵢ` to `E₁`
- `CE₂ᵢ` are the series of conversions from `ELᵢ` to `E₂`

> `T'₁` is at least as good as `T'₂` if there is an identity conversion between them.  

Reviewer: It sounds like `T'₁` is at least as good as `T'₂` implies that `T'₂` is at least as good as `T'₁`. Perhaps we should use "is the same as" or similar term instead.
```suggestion
`T'₁` is the same as `T'₂` if there is an identity conversion between them.  
```

Author: I'm specifically using the words "at least as good". I'm not certain that having an identity conversion will remain the only way for two collection types to be as good as each other.

`T'₁` is better than `T'₂` if:
- `T'₁` is ReadOnlySpan<T>, and `T'₂` is not ReadOnlySpan<T>

> - `T'₂` is Span<T>, and `T'₂` is an *array_or_array_interface*

Reviewer 2: This feels good to me.

> - `T'₂` is Span<T>, and `T'₂` is an *array_or_array_interface*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `T'₁` is Span<T>, and `T'₂` is an *array_or_array_interface*
```

> - `T'₂` is implicitly convertible to `T'₁`, and `T'₁` is not implicitly convertible to `T'₂`.

Reviewer: Should `T'₁` and `T'₂` be reversed here? For example, we should prefer `List<T>` over `IEnumerable<T>`, and `List<T>` is implicitly convertible to `IEnumerable<T>`.

```suggestion
- `T'₁` is implicitly convertible to `T'₂`, and `T'₂` is not implicitly convertible to `T'₁`.
```

> Otherwise, `T'₁` neither as good as nor better than `T₂`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, `T'₁` neither as good as nor better than `T'₂`.
```

If `E₁` and `E₂` have an identity conversion, then the element conversions are as good as each other. Otherwise, the element conversions to `E₁` are better than the element conversions to `E₂` if:
- For every `ELᵢ`, `CE₁ᵢ` is at least as good as `CE₂ᵢ`, and
- There is at least one i where `CE₁ᵢ` is better than `CE₂ᵢ`
  
Otherwise, neither set of element conversions is better than the other, and they are also not as good as each other.  

> Conversion comparisons are made using better conversion from expression if `ELᵢ` is not a spread expression. If `ELᵢ` is a spread expression, we use better conversion from the element type of the spread collection to `E₁` or `E₂`, respectively.

Reviewer: Spreads are not considered expressions.
```suggestion
Conversion comparisons are made using better conversion from expression if `ELᵢ` is not a spread element. If `ELᵢ` is a spread element, we use better conversion from the element type of the spread collection to `E₁` or `E₂`, respectively.
```

`T₁` is a ***better collection conversion from expression*** than `T₂` if:
- `T'₁` is better than `T'₂`, and the element conversions to `E₁` are at least as good as the element conversions to `E₂`, or

> - `T'₁` is at least as good as `T'₂`, and the element conversions to `E₁` are better than the element conversions to `E₂`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `T'₁` is the same as `T'₂`, and the element conversions to `E₁` are at least as good as than the element conversions to `E₂`, and at least one of the element conversions to `E₁` is better than the element conversion to `E₂`.
```

Reviewer 2: Not holding an opinion about which way, but I did notice there was something satisfying about the symmetry of "A is better and B is at least as good, or A is at least as good and B is better."

Author: I used the wording I did specifically here.

### Scenarios:

In plain English, the collection types themselves must be either the same, or unambiguously better (ie, `List<T>` and `List<T>` are the same, `List<T>` is unambiguously better than `IEnumerable<T>`, and `List<T>` and `HashSet<T>` cannot be compared), and
the element conversions for the better collection type must also be the same or better (ie, we can't decide between `ReadOnlySpan<object>` and `Span<string>` for `[""]`, the user needs to make that decision). More examples of this are:

| `T₁` | `T₂` | `E` | `C₁` Conversions | `C₂` Conversions | `T'₁` vs `T'₂` | `CE₁ᵢ` vs `CE₂ᵢ` | Outcome |
|--------|--------|------------|----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|---------|
| `List<int>` | `List<byte>` | `[1, 2, 3]` | `[Identity, Identity, Identity]` | `[Implicit Constant, Implicit Constant, Implicit Constant]` | `T'₁` is as good as `T'₂` | `CE₁ᵢ` is better | `List<int>` is picked |

> | `List<int>` | `List<byte>` | `[(int)1, (byte)2]` | `[Identity, Implicit Numeric]` | Not applicable | `T'₁` is as good as `T'₂` | `T₂` is not applicable | `List<int>` is picked |

Reviewer 2: It looks like `-` is used instead of `Not applicable` in the other rows. For clarity, what do you think of using `N/A` everywhere?
